docs/database.md, before:

## Context 
I want to design database for my personal book management where I track all the books I have read, there are 2 options
1. Create 2 tables: 
   - books(author, name) and 
   - reads(book_id, finished_date, source, language). 
   
   When I finish reading a new book, I create a record on books and a record on reads with created book_id on books. When I finish reading an old book, I find the book on books with known name and author, I create a record on reads with found book_id. When I need to query how many times I read for each book, I will make a join operation on 2 tables.
2. Create 1 table: 
   - reads(author, name, finished_date, source, language). 

   When I finish reading a new or an old book, I will do the same operation, insert a new row with author, name, finished_date, source, language. When I need to query how many times I read for each book, I will count on group (author, name) to have immediately result. Looks like efficient, but how I can make sure the same book will be saved in the same values in columns author and name for my query.



Both approaches have their merits, but the best choice depends on specific needs and priorities. Let's deep dive into each option's pros and cons:

### Option 1: Two Tables (Normalized Design)
Using two tables (`books` and `read_books`) is a normalized approach that prevents redundancy by separating book details from the reading records.

#### `books` Table:
- `book_id` (Primary Key)
- `author`
- `name`

#### `read_books` Table:
- `read_id` (Primary Key)
- `book_id` (Foreign Key)
- `finished_date`
- `source`
- `language`

**Pros:**
- Avoids data redundancy: Book details are stored once, regardless of how many times user reads the book.
- Update efficiency: If a book's details change, we only need to update one record in the `books` table.
- Integrity: It is easier to maintain consistent data for book details.

**Cons:**
- Slightly more complex queries: To get details about the books user has read, we'll need to join tables.
- Dependency on consistent book identification: We'll need to ensure that we correctly link `read_books` entries to the `books` table.

This approach is generally preferred in database design because it is scalable and efficient in terms of storage. To ensure that we link to the correct book, we could implement a user interface that allows user to search for a book by name or author before logging it as read, reducing the chance of duplicate entries.

### Option 2: Single Table (Denormalized Design)
Keeping all data in one `reads` table simplifies the design and makes some queries more straightforward.

#### `read_books` Table:
- `read_id` (Primary Key)
- `author`
- `name`
- `finished_date`
- `source`
- `language`

**Pros:**
- Simplicity: Easier to write queries since all information is in one place.
- Immediate results: Aggregating read counts for each book is more straightforward.

**Cons:**
- Data redundancy: The author's name and book title are repeated for every reading record.
- Maintenance: Updates to a book's details require changes to multiple records.
- Potential for inconsistency: Ensuring that book information is entered consistently can be challenging.

To ensure consistency in book entries, we could use a controlled vocabulary for `author` and `name` fields or even implement a UI feature that suggests book titles as users type, based on existing entries in the database. This would help maintain consistency and prevent duplicates.

## Decision
While the single-table design might seem simpler initially, the two-table approach is more robust, scalable, and adheres to good database normalization practices. It may require more complex queries, but it will save us from potential headaches as database grows. To address the issue of ensuring consistent book identification:

- Implement a user-friendly interface that allows users to search for existing books before adding new ones.
- Use dropdowns or autocomplete features that help users select from existing authors and titles.
- Regularly review the `books` table to merge any duplicates that may have occurred.

Ultimately, if we plan to expand database in the future or potentially integrate with other systems, the two-table approach would likely serve us better in the long run.

## References
- Chat-GPT 4.0


### TODO
- UT for handler: test path
- should return id in GET /books?
- if client makes request: page_id, not support parameter? we reject or ignore?
- how can make language, source parameters not required in POST /reads
- restrict value of language is EN, VI

- do source value need to save in database? separate table
- add update books
- user insert the book name, our system query the author on Google
- add column on book if author is VNese or not, so that the book can have EN language
- add table author with their nationality so that i can find out which country produces my interest author
- statistic: which source of book I read the most
- add column on book: original name 

### Resolved
- id -> uuid
- POST, GET for same path
- catch error when book_id does not exist (remove manual check if book_id ). I can actively know the client's request is invalid if I manually check on app
  - Can keep them both, do not need to couple them: validate on app, and on database.

Commit message:

feat: persist data in docker volume

docs/database.md, after:

## Context 
I want to design database for my personal book management where I track all the books I have read, there are 2 options
1. Create 2 tables: 
   - books(author, name) and 
   - reads(book_id, finished_date, source, language). 
   
   When I finish reading a new book, I create a record on books and a record on reads with created book_id on books. When I finish reading an old book, I find the book on books with known name and author, I create a record on reads with found book_id. When I need to query how many times I read for each book, I will make a join operation on 2 tables.
2. Create 1 table: 
   - reads(author, name, finished_date, source, language). 

   When I finish reading a new or an old book, I will do the same operation, insert a new row with author, name, finished_date, source, language. When I need to query how many times I read for each book, I will count on group (author, name) to have immediately result. Looks like efficient, but how I can make sure the same book will be saved in the same values in columns author and name for my query.



Both approaches have their merits, but the best choice depends on specific needs and priorities. Let's deep dive into each option's pros and cons:

### Option 1: Two Tables (Normalized Design)
Using two tables (`books` and `read_books`) is a normalized approach that prevents redundancy by separating book details from the reading records.

#### `books` Table:
- `book_id` (Primary Key)
- `author`
- `name`

#### `read_books` Table:
- `read_id` (Primary Key)
- `book_id` (Foreign Key)
- `finished_date`
- `source`
- `language`

**Pros:**
- Avoids data redundancy: Book details are stored once, regardless of how many times user reads the book.
- Update efficiency: If a book's details change, we only need to update one record in the `books` table.
- Integrity: It is easier to maintain consistent data for book details.

**Cons:**
- Slightly more complex queries: To get details about the books user has read, we'll need to join tables.
- Dependency on consistent book identification: We'll need to ensure that we correctly link `read_books` entries to the `books` table.

This approach is generally preferred in database design because it is scalable and efficient in terms of storage. To ensure that we link to the correct book, we could implement a user interface that allows user to search for a book by name or author before logging it as read, reducing the chance of duplicate entries.

### Option 2: Single Table (Denormalized Design)
Keeping all data in one `reads` table simplifies the design and makes some queries more straightforward.

#### `read_books` Table:
- `read_id` (Primary Key)
- `author`
- `name`
- `finished_date`
- `source`
- `language`

**Pros:**
- Simplicity: Easier to write queries since all information is in one place.
- Immediate results: Aggregating read counts for each book is more straightforward.

**Cons:**
- Data redundancy: The author's name and book title are repeated for every reading record.
- Maintenance: Updates to a book's details require changes to multiple records.
- Potential for inconsistency: Ensuring that book information is entered consistently can be challenging.

To ensure consistency in book entries, we could use a controlled vocabulary for `author` and `name` fields or even implement a UI feature that suggests book titles as users type, based on existing entries in the database. This would help maintain consistency and prevent duplicates.

## Decision
While the single-table design might seem simpler initially, the two-table approach is more robust, scalable, and adheres to good database normalization practices. It may require more complex queries, but it will save us from potential headaches as database grows. To address the issue of ensuring consistent book identification:

- Implement a user-friendly interface that allows users to search for existing books before adding new ones.
- Use dropdowns or autocomplete features that help users select from existing authors and titles.
- Regularly review the `books` table to merge any duplicates that may have occurred.

Ultimately, if we plan to expand database in the future or potentially integrate with other systems, the two-table approach would likely serve us better in the long run.

## References
- Chat-GPT 4.0

## Export and import data to Docker volume
1. Export data 
```
$ docker exec <container_name> /usr/bin/mysqldump -u root --password=<password> <database_name> > backup.sql
```

```
$ docker exec be6a599a11e1 /usr/bin/mysqldump -u admin --password=password my_books > backup.sql
mysqldump: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
mysqldump: Error: 'Access denied; you need (at least one of) the PROCESS privilege(s) for this operation' when trying to dump tablespaces

```
Hence use root user instead
```
$ docker exec be6a599a11e1 /usr/bin/mysqldump -u root --password= my_books > backup.sql
mysqldump: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
```

2. Copy the sql backup file into container
``` 
$ docker cp backup.sql 74eab23e1121:/backup.sql
Successfully copied 12.3kB to 74eab23e1121:/backup.sql
```
3. Import data

``` 
$ docker exec -i 74eab23e1121 mysql -u root --password= my_books < backup.sql 
mysql: [Warning] Using a password on the command line interface can be insecure.
```
### TODO
- UT for handler: test path
- should return id in GET /books?
- if client makes request: page_id, not support parameter? we reject or ignore?
- how can make language, source parameters not required in POST /reads
- restrict value of language is EN, VI

- do source value need to save in database? separate table
- add update books
- user insert the book name, our system query the author on Google
- add column on book if author is VNese or not, so that the book can have EN language
- add table author with their nationality so that i can find out which country produces my interest author
- statistic: which source of book I read the most
- add column on book: original name 

### Resolved
- id -> uuid
- POST, GET for same path
- catch error when book_id does not exist (remove manual check if book_id ). I can actively know the client's request is invalid if I manually check on app
  - Can keep them both, do not need to couple them: validate on app, and on database.
